ok so chicken game
fowl play??
Land of the fowl?

you are some chickens

fundamentally, you produce eggs, eat food, and control the balance to grow a civilization of chickens.

start with limited space, chickens, and resources.

male chick = cockerel
male chicken = Rooster
female chick = pullet
female adult = Hen
chicks = any chickens under a year
chickens = any adult chickens


CHICKEN facts
roosters dance a circle around hens if he's happy
they do it if she's happy too
hen lays an egg in an open close nest
Eggs can be laid for 2 weeks before incubated
when 12ish eggs are in one nest a Hen beings brooding phase (claiming eggs and caring for chicks until grown)
brooding hen begins incubating for 21 days, then eggs hatch
chicks stay with hen for 6 weeks, following, and getting to eat first.
after 6 weeks, chicks become cockerels or pullets for 1 year, then become roosters or hens.
cockerels and pullets are not productive, just play together all cute like and eat

Chickens eat grain
Chickens grow grain in fields

Happiness
Happiness is a measurement of the balance of a flocks needs and stuff.
If there is plenty of food, and comfort, and scenery? And whatever, they’re happy
Happy flocks do things better

Golden eggs
Hen’s have a chance to lay a golden egg.
Variables can influence this (hen’s happiness/ flock’s happiness?)

What are we buying with the money we make?..
We seem like a pretty self sustaining flock, and don't need outside stuff. 

RESOURCES
Food/Grain
Wood
Stone
Gold Eggs
Cotton?Wool?Fabric?

BUILDING TYPES
Field/Farm
Living Shack thing
Hatchery
Defense Hut outpost thing as an area for defending chickens to patrol
Trading Post to sell gold eggs/buy resources
Research Hut thing to learn  new recipes / upgrades

Chicken Jobs
work fields (all tasks involved grouped - plant, maintain, transport to storehouse)
guard flock from attack (guard posts/towers)
make chicken armour / weapons / tools
clear land / gather resources - grouped task
build things with resources - cosmetic and useful structures
attack enemies
Make trading posts
Research new blueprints to build buildings and upgrade stuff


DAYS

morning - set chickens' targets to eat.
eat() , set chickens' target to Job
DoThing();

noon - set chickens' targets to eat
eat() , set chickens' targets to Job
DoThing();

evening - set chickens' targets to eat
eat() , set chickens' targets to sleep
DoThing();


Pecking Order
in Nature there's actually a 'pecking order' determining who gets to eat first (or who gets to decide who eats first)
Chicks > Hens > Roosters (unless roosters are a shortage - should be 3-5 hens to 1 rooster)



CHICKENS CAN GROW TEETH. I don’t know if this is useful but it’s true.





